Shri Mataji: Suddenly become little cold, isn’t it? Yogini: Yes
Shri Mataji: Yes.
What about him, did he have tea? Reporter: Yup.
Don't mind our photographer is just sitting here, getting some photographs.
Yogini: Would you like a cup of tea or coffee?
Shri Mataji: A little loudly? Yogini: Would you like a cup of tea or coffee?
Shri Mataji: Yes, I don’t mind. What about him?
Photographer: I’m all right, thank you, thank you. Yogini: He preferred not to take.
Shri Mataji: All right. Yogini: Cup of tea? Shri Mataji: Cup of tea.
R: So, how was the tour going? Your tour in Australia going so far?
Shri Mataji: So far? R: Yes.
Shri Mataji: It was very good in Brisbane,
except for the reporter who came and could not get his Realisation, and he was very disappointed.
R: Can you just explain to me, it’s quite a basic question, what exactly Self Realisation is?
Shri Mataji: I will explain.
You see, we have reached a stage of human awareness now.
But that’s not the absolute.
If it was absolute,
then there would have been no problem.
All the human problems come in
-it's all right, all right. Never mind.
Because we have not yet got to that stage.
Now, that stage which I’m talking about
is Self Realisation, where you become the Spirit.
That in your awareness,
the light of spirit comes in.
The light of spirit comes in.
Without that light
we have no discrimination
and
we have selfishness,
temptations, habits,
all kind of dominations on us.
But when you become the Spirit,
then you feel complete.
R: How did you find Self Realisation?
Shri Mataji: I was born with it.
But it was a process so far only for few people.
But I found out a method by which
thousands could get Self Realisation at the same time.
R: How?
Shri Mataji: We have within us the power
which is called as the Kundalini.
Kundalini is the power, residual power.
Now, this has to be awakened.
R: Sorry? Shri Mataji: This has to be awakened.
It’s a living process
because it is the epitome of our evolution.
Like you sprout the seed.
It works spontaneously
but you must have
that divine power within you
to achieve it.
Photographer: Excuse me, can you just move this?
Just wanted to move it a little way, thank you.
Shri Mataji: Now? Photographer: Thank you.
Thank you.
Shri Mataji: So, you have everything within you.
And the time has come also, I call it the blossom time.
And that’s how many are getting Realisation.
R: So, for example, how could I find out Self Realisation?
Shri Mataji: You can also get Realisation. R: How? How would I do that?
Shri Mataji: It’s very simple. R: Tapping into this energy.
Shri Mataji: No, no, just you have to put your hands towards Me.
But with the reporters, they are always in a hurry, you see, they’re not in a relaxed mood.
That’s one problem, isn’t it true? R: The work, yes it's true.
Shri Mataji: And that’s what I found, that when the reporters say that we want to have Realisation,
they couldn’t get it and the photographer had got it.
It’s very surprising. So, there’s nothing wrong with any reporter as such.
And he asked Me, “What’s wrong with me?” And then I say nothing is wrong, but you are in a hurry, that’s the trouble is.
So, this is something you need little peace to get it.
And more, in the collective it works much faster.
R: When's it in a group of people? Shri Mataji: Yes, there are many, many of them, works better.
R: Right. Do you find people sceptical about your work, your teachings?
Shri Mataji: Yes, they are always to begin with, it’s all right
because that's their freedom.
They have to have their freedom, if they have to achieve the
complete freedom.
People who are in bondage cannot receive the freedom isn't it.
R: So how do you see the future of your work? You obviously travel around, teaching.
Shri Mataji: This point I would like to clarify little more, the one you’ve asked just now about.
What I would to say is that when you’re doubting someone,
then you must have a scientific attitude.
Is to keep your mind open,
not to close it down.
Because this is the knowledge of the roots.
You know the knowledge of the tree, I should say, tree of life.
It’s like a hypothesis whatever I put before you is like a hypothesis,
and then, if it is proved, you have to accept.
But if your mind is closed, is very difficult to force it on anyone.
Actually, you have to ask for it.
R: Yes. Shri Mataji: All right?
Now, what was the next question you asked me? R: The future.
Shri Mataji: Future. R: What would you like to do, carry on touring because your 64 now?
Shri Mataji: Yes, I think I have to do it for some time more.
Things are working out well and
many young people
who were lost into various searches
are coming around.
Most of the false gurus are exposed.
These evangelistic people and all that sort of people are also now getting exposed.
And so many conditionings
that they had are dropping down.
And I’m sure, within ten years time
we will be able to establish Sahaja Yoga,
that people will have to understand
that it is something
that will transform the whole world.
And that’s the only way the solution will come to all our problems.
R: What do your followers, I’ve hesitated to use the word, the people you’ve taught,
what they get out to your teachings, have they -did they come back to you and say it's changed their life?
Shri Mataji: Yes. Firstly they become very peaceful people.
Say we talk of peace,
but here’s no peace within, so what’s the use of talking about peace?
They become very righteous and virtuous.
I don’t have to tell them don’t do this or don’t do that,
they themselves become powerful.
Then they are very satisfied souls,
they do not hanker after anything anymore.
R: Have you been meeting
people on this trip? That you taught, on your previous…?
Shri Mataji: On the street? R: No here, because you have been to Australia three times before, haven’t you?
Shri Mataji: Yes, R: Have you met any old friends that you taught,
coming back to you saying how much they’re enjoying life since you taught them about the Yoga?
Shri Mataji: Yes, yes, all of them.
All of them write to Me letters after letters.
R: Got many friends in Australia? Shri Mataji: Yes, yes, many, many.
But they get the power to give Realisation to others.
We have no organization as such, no organization.
And so many are married in Sahaja Yoga.
R: Oh really? Shri Mataji: Oh, they are very happily married,
and have very sweet children, we had seventy one marriages this year.
R: Where, were any particular countries? Shri Mataji: In India.
R: In India? Shri Mataji: They were from various countries, international marriages you can call it.
R: So you bring these couples together? Shri Mataji: Yes,
and they meet each other and they like each other then they marry
and they are very successful marriages, very successful.
And the children also are very beautiful children,
are Realised children, but intelligent and very disciplined.
R: You brought any Australian couples together?
Shri Mataji: So many. So many are sitting here, I think.
R: You met through the organization?
Yogini: Yes. Shri Mataji: Australians are the best
I may say foreign Sahaja Yogis, what you say,
from India we call them they are the best, among all of them, will you?
R: Excellent.
You mentioned, I’ve read, read something said that
your Yoga could cure diabetes, AIDS? It helps?
Shri Mataji: Yes, many diseases.
R: In what way? Shri Mataji: Even we can work to AIDS we can say,
one can work it out.
But people come to us at such a stage when they are absolutely lost and they have no will power.
Then it’s difficult.
R: But AIDS is incurable, they say.
Shri Mataji: No, it’s not incurable, it is quite curable.
R: How?
Shri Mataji: It is caused by the copper I think, in the blood.
And the copper gets this virus on top of this.
And this virus is carried by the copper in the body.
If you can neutralize the copper in the body
through some gold.
In India we have methods of making gold soluble
and with that maybe that
this copper can be covered with that gold and can become untarnishable
and this virus can be thrown out of the body.
But after that one has to lead a sane life, that’s the problem.
R: So, you’re looking forward to meeting more people in Australia,
teaching more people here?
Shri Mataji: I beg your pardon. R: You’re looking forward teaching more people?
Shri Mataji: Yes, I hope so, this year there will be some more people will be coming
and learning this method of transformation
and giving transformation to so many.
R: When did you discover your powers? How old were you when you discovered you had powers?
Shri Mataji: I knew it from my childhood
but this one I had to discover, one thing: how to give Realisation to many?
So I’ve worked out all the permutations and combinations, and then I found out this method.
R: Very successful method. Shri Mataji: Very successful.
R: OK, that’s fine, that's for honestly was great.
Shri Mataji: All right? R: Yes, it was lovely.
Photographer: Could I do a picture next door? Shri Mataji: All right. Photographer: Just in there?
R: Thank you very much for talking to me. Shri Mataji: Thank you very much. R: It was great.
Shri Mataji: May God bless you! R: Very interesting.
Do come to my program! R: Yes, it’s on Thursday and Friday?
Shri Mataji: You must because it must be authentically said, isn’t it?
Once you get Realisation you can be authentic about it.